From the dean, he said, Hennigan, what's that bed doing up in your lab?
I said, a bed in my lab?
He said, yeah, the guard just wants to know what's going on.
I said, well, I don't know yet.
I'll come up and find out what's happening.
And it was real funny.
Find out what had happened is this guy who's a funny guy had gotten drunk, and these two girls got all his bedroom and the table and the lamp and got a pickup truck.
And I don't know how the heck they got it in the lab.
But when I came, dean called me and said,
What's going on up there?
I said, man, I don't know.
So we finally got it.
But that was cute.
So the girls are just, you know, just superb.
Share with this machine and future people who will listen to this material and will read it, share some events that you remember where you're proud to have helped a student.
reach a goal that that student was trying to achieve?
Where did you advise or counsel or help?
You know high school it's really hard to say.
I did that for every student I tracked for 25 years.
I've been in on divorces.
I've been in on just encouraging them.
Well, one guy, he was here for one semester as an ME and he made a .1.
So he spent five years in the service and came back and they wouldn't take him back.
Now, it just so happens he spent five years, had five stripes, and was qualified medic and physician assistant and nobody asked him.
So he came over to me and I said, you bet, we'll give you a try.
I didn't have to, I was back in the old days when they let me make some decisions here.
And this guy made B's and A's and something, Tom, I don't remember his name.
But this was recently.
Had that and had some guys that had been, I used to go in the hall and visit with them and see what's going on, why they weren't an IE and told them they better be.
I helped, I would say, a lot of the little girls didn't, young ladies, I call them little girls to be sure, I call them little girls, be sure I keep them in the little girl kind of category, even though they were beautiful little girls, you know, but gotta keep them in little girls.
Well, I forgot what I was saying.
Well, where you did some help.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, well we helped.
They would be real frightened they wouldn't get a job and I told her you're going to get seven offers and they got seven offers but about the first of their senior year they're just absolutely frightened.
But I worked, I can tell you just about, I mean we got all kind of things and this is what I, the reason I wanted to do that is if they felt comfortable and I could solve their problems then they'd make better grades I thought.
So I've had divorce cases, girlfriend, a lot of girlfriend, boyfriend problems.
One, it got expected and came in and talked to me and kept the baby and we loaned her our crib, things like that.
There's a mentor.
I had a Russian guy that came in.
He saw my sign, mentor, and he came in and he was crying.
I said, what's the problem?
He said, well, it talks about it.
He can't do the homework.
He just couldn't do the homework.
So I said, well, now, everybody else does the homework, but I can't do that.
Well, why not?
So I called the prof and found out that this guy was the sharpest person out of Russia, where Kiev is, that's Eukerane.
He was the sharpest engineer out of the Eukerane, made the highest grade on anything, and every time they'd give him a homework problem, he'd go back to Newton and Maxwell and develop it all the way through, and he'd get 12 books, and he couldn't work the homework problem.
But anyway when we had it, so I think I helped him stay and then we had his master's examination and the EE prof said we can't teach you anymore here.
You know more than any of us.
So they had 14 graduate students at MIT and he was number 15.
They only had room for 14 but they took him.
And so I feel he doesn't remember me and that's part of the game there but that feels good you know.
Now you, during these years, were you the, did you have a specific title?
Were you the?
I was kind of the academic advisor, yeah.
Was that an official part of your task?
Yeah, it was official in addition to about 12 hours in the classroom, yeah.
I got no credit for it.
And you did that for how many years?
About 17 really.
Yeah, about 17 out of 29.
Really it's more, it's almost a full time, but yeah.
Do you remember any last minute emergencies where somebody needs fat pulled out of the fire just before commencement?
Absolutely, and I know how to do that.
Describe something.
Well, we had one guy that was in the Corps, dating, working 50 hours a week, and had a very low grade.
And so when he came up, we found out, of course, we learned it later, I mean, we learned it, anyway, utilized, that if he has any low grades, Fs, in courses that are not in his major, you can waive them for graduation purposes only.
So really, this guy had about a 198, but we waived those, and he had a 20.
in graduating.
We did that on a couple guys.
One guy and this guy went on to McDonnell Douglas and was voted the most promising young engineer and oh
And at Muster, I told you, didn't tell you, that the guy came up to me, his name was Mike.
But anyway, Mike said, you don't remember me probably, but I was in IA years.
I made medium grades.
I wasn't a very good student.
But he said, just want you to know that I'm working on my third million right now, that just because a guy didn't make good grades doesn't mean he can't win.
So he was real proud of that, Mike was, and he's in Los Alamos.
I guess there's one guy that just busted.
He was just so defeated.
His wife left him.
He was down here, and I talked to him, and boy, he had called me every week when he went to work.
So I think that's something that we don't have now because the secretaries, we promoted a secretary to do that.
Not that she isn't great, but she doesn't know the courses, doesn't know the jobs, doesn't know what you got to go through and doing all the advising because no one wants to and the reason they don't is you don't get paid for it.
You can't get any credit for advising.
I did a study and looked at all the pay and all of the engineering advisors were the lowest paid in their department.
And yet, if you look at the students, we had 520 students when I
I quit.
We're down now to about 300 because you got to hustle kids.
You got to treat them right.
You got to find a little extra something for them to do.
Now, your last years, in number of majors, industrial engineering was among the largest majors, wasn't it?
In the recent years?
No, we're running about I guess double E and ME and civil and nuclear.
So no, we aren't the biggest.
We had a big graduate school for a while because Werther was interested in that.
How did you and your colleagues try, how did you work to ensure that you all were staying in step with the changes in industry?
Well, you're trying to say, did we have an industrial council?
We finally got one of those.
But I think from meetings and so forth, just, and I don't know if we stayed in step.
That's why I'm kind of happy to be gone because I got a call.
They want 40 engineers in time study.
And a guy called me Matt, one of my graduate students, and he's doing something like that.
Bill is the guy, I had three of them come by yesterday, I can't believe it.
Bill is working for a healthcare computer system.
So the question is, I think we've gone too far away to science and math and physics and math and statistics, which I think will, I think, but again,
That's just my opinion, you know.
All right, let me be sure that I understand what I believe you're saying.
Are you saying that you fear it's becoming too theoretical?
Yes.
And not enough practical.
Absolutely.
And you remember I said I had a choice of rice and A&M and I studied them both and felt that that was important then.
And I still feel it's important now because of my little comment about Bill Black, who is now a cutting torch engineer.
meaning there's a heck of a lot more than what we're giving them.
I think our leadership got their PhD in what's called operations research or math and they're kind of now phasing up into the leadership phase and what's going to have to happen is they're going to be phasing down and Purdue's already started that and then the hands-on is coming back.
The last few years that you were a full-time faculty member,
describe what your normal routine was in courses you taught and so forth.
Well, the day started, I got there usually 7.30, had my own parking.
I'd leave there usually after 4.30, but sometimes around 6.30.
We used to stay there all day, that was kind of our back in Worthing, early, early years.
So that's, question again, what did you just say?
Well, you were teaching about him.
Okay, yeah, I was teaching about 14 hours.
I had five labs and I had, but see, I was a teacher, so I was 100% teaching and they really gave me 100%.
And most, a lot of the guys tried to kind of do more research or let their TAs teach it, but I wanted to be there.
Which courses were you teaching?
I was teaching the time study of work measurement has to do with efficiency improvement.
Those were primarily to what level students?
They were two sophomores.
Sophomores.
And then I had the senior level design course where we did the factory design and I took them out many times to a factory.
Usually had four projects working somewhere within 100 miles or so.
But that was a senior design and then I had the senior design course in ergonomics, which we really helped develop here.
I built the first human factors lab in 66 and finished it in 67.
Then we moved over to Zachary in 70.
I built a big human factors lab in the basement.
Old Dean Benson gave me $90,000 to build that.
So I would,
I'm lost here.
Which corporations did you find it most easy to work with in trying to play students, to get intern experience?
UPS appreciated ours.
We got about 14 with them.
Okay.
appreciated those.
We must have 30 with them.
General Electric's phased down, Westinghouse, we have a lot with TI.
We got about 400 with TI and then we have a hundred or so with LTV.
So they were here looking for people and the little group, well the people got many offers.
All the time I've been here except for one year they'd get five or six offers and so
because they were real good management.
We had a lot, I started healthcare called hospital management engineering and we have about 15 in that now working in that.
Right now, I've run all, I've only got a few more questions left but you've made a lot of notes.
What have we not covered?
Well, I was just thinking of one, we talked about hitchhiking, I was going to mention that.
The one that I remember too, another funny story, a guy wrote a letter to the bat.
He'd write every day how great Oklahoma was and how terrible A&M was, that A&M needs to change.
And one day I came home from class and I heard Boomer Sumer being played by about 20 guys in the band.
And we looked out there and they had packed his car
put it out on the street, and they played Boomer Sooners.
They walked over there, kind of carried him to his car, and then they played the War Hymn coming back.
I just thought that was hilarious.
That must have been in about 53.
He was a corps member?
No, he was just a, he might have been a corps member.
I don't remember.
But he was an undergraduate.
Yeah, an undergraduate, yeah.
Oh, okay.
I thought that was funny.
And I told you about the bonfire guy.
See, he built the lab.
Oh, there's another one that was.
I used to chew cigars.
I'd light them once and then just chew them the rest of the day and I learned that in the Air Force and so I'd do that.
So I'd come into class with my books and I'd have my cigar and I'd set it on there and lay my books down and reach over and I told you that.
I turned around after I got the board clean, turned around and everybody had a cigar, the girls and the guys and I still think that was real cute.
What was your reaction to that?
I just laughed.
I just thought that was hilarious.
Because kids, when you get to be part of it, it really— Now that's an acceptance signal.
Yes, that's an acceptance signal.
Let's see.
Handle.
Oh.
I've talked to several guys on this.
Coming back to A&M on Sunday, it was terrifying to see that tower and know you're going to be back.
Boy, I talked to another guy, several guys said that was really terrifying.
But you know, looking at this, I've done what I've wanted to and that's the difference.
I wanted to be a prof and I wanted to work with the kids.
I've had them over here many times.
I had many, many problems to solve and gave my ideas.
And I feel real good.
I didn't make promotion.
I'd never make professor because you have to be a researcher to be a professor.
And of course, I researched with General Electric, jet engines, and that's real stuff.
And I don't know.
I just never did it.
So I became an associate prof, but I got to work with the kids for 30 years here in junior high.
And I guess I won two out of the three former student awards for teaching and, you know, student relations.
So I really feel like it's been a good season, a good year.
And we've never, like to say my problem or call it a problem or not, once I decided I was working with GE and decided to go into teaching, I really enjoyed that.
And I think I've contributed.
And like I say, we get calls quite often and it's funny.
Okay, that's over.
These kind of wind-up questions.
Okay, wind-up questions.
What did it mean, looking back, what did it mean to you that you were an undergraduate at Texas A&M?
What has it meant to your life?
Boy, that's meant everything, more or less.
You hate to say that because it doesn't really because you change every day or every month, but you look back, gave you an opportunity.
I was in the same floor with H.B.
Zachary.
He's a great guy.
I don't mean that in any way, but can you imagine a guy working family that didn't have any money at all?
I think I'd gave you an opportunity, gave you a chance.
A&M did.
And then coming through life, it gave you confidence that you could.
I was always, in high school, kind of lack of confidence.
No money, wasn't a big football player, you know.
And I'd say some of the things that happened here gave me the confidence for life.
And then also when I flew jets, a small guy was just as good as a big guy.
And I remember that, and kids were that way, they remember.
If somebody gave you today a check for a million dollars with only one stipulation, you had to give it to Texas A&M, but you could specify what was to be done with it, what would you tell A&M to do with your million dollar gift?
Don't spend a penny of it for administration of any kind.
Don't put it through the foundation because the leader of that is making $300,000 a year and that's just a little bit excessive.
But I'd say give it to something that, and I don't know about the best kids.
We had one guy gave us three scholarships for the worst kids, the guy that was having the most trouble and that was interesting.
I would guess I'd try to get it not in student activities, but I'd try to get it, since I was in that, related somehow to a ship.
I'm not sure if it's a scholarship I would like or maybe development of something for the undergraduates would be better, maybe development of something, maybe a lab or,
But somehow I would like to realize, to make people realize that the kids come here and they think you must make an A or you'll never get a job.
And somehow they got to realize that there's good old guys and average guys that are, you know, okay.
So I think I would, I'm a little bit ticked at the amount of money that comes in and goes for other things.
But A&M needs other things, but I won't knock it.
Okay, next step.
Last question.
What feelings do you hold in your heart today for Texas A&M?
Well, I kind of feel I've dedicated my life to it in a way.
And Jeanette has fitted, I was fortunate that she fitted in, fit in real good with the whole system here.
We, I sometimes think that we paid our money and we got our deal.
Sometimes think that A&M is just bricks, you know.
That's what we remember.
Everybody else changes.
The bricks stay there.
How are your brick collection?
Didn't you have a brick collection?
Yeah.
But that's kind of what A&M is kind of an interesting cross feeling.
A&M has been great to me.
Not really, but the system has been great.
I paid my dues, you know, all that.
So I sometimes have a little feeling there, but yeah, I don't know what I'd do without having been here.
And I have no idea where I'd be or anything.
And I've had some great times.
Life has been good enough for me, engineer salary and so forth, and profs, teaching profs salary, I've just really enjoyed a lot.
And now that I'm retired, I got more money than I had when I was working.
Of course, I don't do much of anything, but just continue your life and so on.
So I think the university and the system and the concept is what did it, and A&M being conservative and, and, you know,
I'm thinking political, not political.
Where you like your country, you know, you develop that.
And I've been proud of that all these many years, you bet.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
Let's see, I covered everything, yeah.